JPCERT-AT-2011-0023
                                                             JPCERT/CC
                                            2011-08-31 (First edition)
                                                  2011-09-15 (Updated)

                  &lt;&lt;&lt; JPCERT/CC Alert 31.08.11 &gt;&gt;

                  Apache HTTP Server DoS Vulnerability

            https://www.jpcert.or.jp/at/2011/at110023.txt


I. Overview

  Apache HTTP Server contains a vulnerability that will cause a Denial 
of Service (DoS). A remote attacker could cause a high level of system 
resource utilization by sending a specially crafted HTTP request to an 
Apache HTTP Server, causing a denial of service.

    Range header DoS vulnerability Apache HTTPD 1.3/2.x (CVE-2011-3192)
    http://mail-archives.apache.org/mod_mbox/httpd-announce/201108.mbox/%3C20110826103531.998348F82@minotaur.apache.org%3E

  According to The Apache Software Foundation, attack tools targeting 
this vulnerability have been made public, and there have been 
confirmed attacks targeting this vulnerability.

*** Update:  Added on 15.09.2011 *************************************

On September 14, 2011 (Japan time), The Apache Software Foundation 
released Apache HTTPD Security ADVISORY (UPDATE 3 - FINAL). The main 
changes are listed below.

  - Apache HTTP Server 1.3 has been removed from the list of versions
    affected by this vulnerability
  - The date of the release of the corrected version of Apache HTTP
    Server 2.0 has been made public
  - Apache HTTP Server 2.2.21 has been released (correction of bug
    introduced in 2.2.20)
    - In addition to this vulnerability, CVE-2011-3348 (mod_proxy_ajp)
      has also been solved.

For more information, refer to the following websites:

    Apache HTTPD Security ADVISORY (UPDATE 3 - FINAL)
    Range header DoS vulnerability Apache HTTPD prior to 2.2.20.
    http://httpd.apache.org/security/CVE-2011-3192.txt

    Apache HTTP Server 2.2.21 Released
    http://www.apache.jp/news/apache-http-server-2.2.21-released
    http://www.apache.org/dist/httpd/Announcement2.2.html

**********************************************************************


II. Products Affected

  According to The Apache Software Foundation, the following versions 
may be affected by this vulnerability. 

  - All versions of Apache HTTP Server 1.3
  - All versions of Apache HTTP Server 2.x

  In addition to these products, products which incorporate the Apache 
HTTP Server may also be affected.

  Those who are using Apache HTTP Server versions provided by 
distributors should refer to information provided by the distributors.


III. Solution

  The Apache Software Foundation has released Apache HTTP Server 
2.2.20, which resolves this vulnerability. Additionally, corrected 
versions are also being provided by several distributors.  We 
recommend quickly deploying the corrected version after thorough 
testing.

  The corrected versions are as follows:

  - Apache HTTP Server 2.2.20
    Apache HTTP Server Source Code Distributions
    http://www.apache.org/dist/httpd/

  - Debian
    Debian Security Advisory
    DSA-2298-1 apache2 -- denial of service
    http://www.debian.org/security/2011/dsa-2298

  - NetBSD
    NetBSD pkgsrc-Bugs archive
    CVS commit:  [pkgsrc-2011Q2] pkgsrc/www/apache22
    http://mail-index.netbsd.org/pkgsrc-changes/2011/08/30/msg059529.html

  For more information regarding this solution, refer to The Apache 
Software Foundation and distributors' websites.

  As of August 31, 2011, The Apache Software Foundation has not 
released corrected versions of Apache HTTP Server 2.0.x, so please 
consider applying workarounds. Support has ended for Apache HTTP 
Server 1.3, so please consider upgrading to 2.0/2.2 or applying 
workarounds.

(Workaround)
  The Apache Software Foundation has released a workaround. However, 
applying the workaround may have a negative impact, so sufficient 
consideration to its effects should be given before applying it.

  For more information regarding this workaround, refer to The Apache 
Software Foundation advisory.

    Advisory: Range header DoS vulnerability Apache HTTPD 1.3/2.x (CVE-2011-3192)
    http://mail-archives.apache.org/mod_mbox/httpd-announce/201108.mbox/%3C20110826103531.998348F82@minotaur.apache.org%3E


IV. Result of JPCERT/CC Verification

  JPCERT/CC has examined the exploit code for this vulnerability. It 
has been confirmed that with Apache HTTP Server 2.2.20, even if the 
attack code is executed, it will not cause a denial of Web server 
services.

    [Verification environment]
    Attack target versions
    Apache: 2.0.64, 2.2.9, 2.2.19, 2.2.20

    [Verification content]
    Execute attack tool and confirm behavior of each Apache version

    [Verification result]
    - Apache 2.0.64, 2.2.9
      - Server itself became inoperable
      - Condition did not change even when attack was stopped, and
        denial of service continued
    - Apache 2.2.19
      - Memory usage rose and response slowed, but Web content
        remained viewable
    - Apache 2.2.20
      - No denial of service occurred


V. References

    Range header DoS vulnerability Apache HTTPD 1.3/2.x (CVE-2011-3192)
    http://mail-archives.apache.org/mod_mbox/httpd-announce/201108.mbox/%3C20110826103531.998348F82@minotaur.apache.org%3E

    Apache HTTP Server 2.2.20 Released
    https://www.apache.org/dist/httpd/Announcement2.2.html

    Apache HTTP Server Source Code Distributions
    http://www.apache.org/dist/httpd/

    Vulnerability Note VU#405811
    Apache HTTPD 1.3/2.x Range header DoS vulnerability
    http://www.kb.cert.org/vuls/id/405811

    JVNVU#405811
    Denial of service vulnerability affecting Apache HTTPD servers
    https://jvn.jp/cert/JVNVU405811/index.html

    Red Hat, Inc.
    CVE-2011-3192 httpd: multiple ranges DoS
    https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=CVE-2011-3192

    Apache HTTP Server 1.3.42 released (final release of 1.3.x)
    http://mail-archives.apache.org/mod_mbox/httpd-announce/201002.mbox/%3C20100203000334.GA19021@infiltrator.stdlib.net%3E

  If you have any further questions or information regarding this 
alert, please contact JPCERT/CC.

________
Revision history
2011-08-31 First edition
2011-09-15 Added Security ADVISORY (UPDATE 3)

======================================================================
JPCERT Coordination Center (JPCERT/CC)
MAIL: info@jpcert.or.jp
TEL: +81-3-3518-4600  FAX: +81-3-3518-4602
https://www.jpcert.or.jp/english/
