JPCERT-AT-2010-0013
                                                             JPCERT/CC
                                                            2010-06-01

                  &lt;&lt;&lt; JPCERT/CC Alert 2010-06-01 &gt;&gt;&gt;

           Emails purporting to advise of company internal
                   malware outbreak contain malware

             https://www.jpcert.or.jp/at/2010/at100013.txt


I. Overview

  JPCERT/CC has received several reports on emails written in 
Japanese which have malware attached as files. These email messages 
purport to advise of company internal malware outbreak and lead users 
to open the attached files. When a user opens and executes the file 
attached to such email, malware may be installed on the PC.

  Emails with Japanese subjects and message text increase the chances 
for users who receive the emails to open the attachments. Even if the 
message text is in Japanese, please pay careful consideration before 
opening the attachments.


II. Overview of email with malware attached

  So far, JPCERT/CC has confirmed the existence of email messages 
such as the following (actual email messages are written in Japanese):

  Email subject:
    URGENT: All staff involvement in investigating viruses and files 
    for malicious script

  Message text (excerpt):
    Please follow the attached manual to investigate if the PCs in 
    the office are infected with viruses.
    Your cooperation is appreciated.
    Thank you! 

  Attached file name:
    Virus Check.zip

  If the zip file attached to the email is decompressed, a 
screen-saver (.scr) file which is disguised as a Microsoft Office 
Word icon is extracted. If a user executes the screen-saver file, 
malware could be installed on the user's PC. (At the same time, the 
document "VIRUS/malicious script investigation" will be opened.)


III. Countermeasures

  As of June 1, 2010, the malware used for this attack does not 
execute just by viewing the email. Do not open suspicious email 
attachments because this malware will be installed by extracting and 
executing the attached file.

  Users should also consider taking countermeasures, such as keeping 
the anti-virus software pattern files updated and scanning email 
attachments using the anti-virus software.


IV. References

    The Information-technology Promotion Agency, Japan (IPA)
    Five hints for handling email attachments
    http://www.ipa.go.jp/security/antivirus/attach5.html


  If you have any further questions or information regarding this 
alert, please contact JPCERT/CC.

======================================================================
JPCERT Coordination Center (JPCERT/CC)
MAIL: info@jpcert.or.jp
TEL: +81-3-3518-4600  FAX: +81-3-3518-4602
https://www.jpcert.or.jp/english/
