JPCERT-AT-2014-0055
                                                             JPCERT/CC
                                                            2014-12-19

                  &lt;&lt;&lt; JPCERT/CC Alert 2014-12-19 &gt;&gt;&gt;

          Alert regarding increase in scans to TCP port 8080

        https://www.jpcert.or.jp/english/at/2014/at140055.html


I. Overview

  At JPCERT/CC, an increase in scans to port TCP 8080 have been
observed since December 5, 2014 on its Internet traffic monitoring
system (TSUBAME *1). Also, it has been confirmed that requests which
are suspected to be attack attempts leveraging the GNU bash
vulnerabilities are sent when responding to some of these scan packets
to TCP port 8080.

  TCP port 8080 is used in various software including the login screen
for NAS products provided by QNAP Systems, Inc. QNAP Systems, Inc. has
provided information on attacks against their NAS products, and the
requests that we observed were targeted against these devices.

   QNAP
   An Urgent Fix on the Reported Infection of a Variant of GNU Bash Environment Variable Command Injection Vulnerability
   http://www.qnap.com/i/jp/support/con_show.php?cid=74

  In some of the source IP addresses that performed scans to TCP port
8080, we have reasons to believe that the responses were from the
login screen for these products.

  We assume that the increase in scans to TCP port 8080 is a result of
servers running these products that were attacked and leveraged for
further attacks on third-parties. As of December 19, scans to TCP port
8080 are on-going, therefore users of these products should apply the
solutions in "IV. Solution".

  At JPCERT/CC, we have contacted network administrators of the
observed IP addresses that have been suspected to be leveraged in
attacks.

  *1 The name of the Asia / Pacific internet traffic monitoring system (Japanese)
     https://www.jpcert.or.jp/tsubame/


II. Attack Flow (Example)

  1) Attacker sends scan packet to TCP port 8080
  2) A request leveraging the GNU bash vulnerability is sent to IP 
     addresses that responded to the scan packet
  3) If using a vulnerable version of firmware, a command is executed
     on the device and a script is downloaded from the Internet and
     then executed.
  4) As a result, the following occur on the device:
     - Addition of users
     - Installation of backdoor
     - Fixes the GNU bash vulnerability
     - Sends scan packets to TCP port 8080 to a random network
       - If a response is received from an IP address, then it sends a
         request that leverages the GNU bash vulnerability to the IP
         address

  * A successful attack may result in information stored on the device
    to be stolen or the device being leveraged for an attack on a
    terminal or device connected to another network.


III. Observation Results

  A graph showing TSUBAME observed scans to TCP port 8080 can be seen
below.

    TSUBAME graph for TCP port 8080 (2014/12/01-2014/12/19)
    https://www.jpcert.or.jp/at/2014/at140055-8080tcp.png


IV. Solution

  Check the firmware version being used according to the information
provided by QNAP Systems, Inc. and upgrade to a firmware version that
addresses this issue. Also, if using a version prior to Turbo NAS
series 4.1.1 build 1003 without Qfix 1.0.2 build 1008 applied it is
recommended to check whether you are affected by an attack using the
information provided at the link below.

    An Urgent Fix on the Reported Infection of a Variant of GNU Bash Environment Variable Command Injection Vulnerability
    http://www.qnap.com/i/jp/support/con_show.php?cid=74

  If it is discovered that you are affected by this attack, the
following are recommended to be checked

  - Check for illegitimate traffic originating from the device after
    fixing the vulnerability
  - Check for any potential effects to devices connected within the
    same network as the NAS device


V. References

    QNAP
    Protect Your Turbo NAS from Remote Attackers - Bash (Shellshock) Vulnerabilities
    http://www.qnap.com/i/en/support/con_show.php?cid=61

    QNAP
    An Urgent Fix on the Reported Infection of a Variant of GNU Bash Environment Variable Command Injection Vulnerability
    http://www.qnap.com/i/jp/support/con_show.php?cid=74

    @police
    Observations of access attempts targeting Bash vulnerabilities (3rd update) (Japanese)
    http://www.npa.go.jp/cyberpolice/detect/pdf/20141209-2.pdf

    JVN#55667175
    QNAP QTS vulnerable to OS command injection
    https://jvn.jp/en/jp/JVN55667175/

    JPCERT/CC
    [Updated] Vulnerability in GNU Bash
    https://www.jpcert.or.jp/english/at/2014/at140037.html

    JPCERT/CC
    Internet Traffic Monitoring System (TSUBAME)
    https://www.jpcert.or.jp/english/tsubame/readme.html


  If you have any information regarding this alert, please contact
JPCERT/CC.

======================================================================
JPCERT Coordination Center (JPCERT/CC)
MAIL: info@jpcert.or.jp
TEL: +81-3-3518-4600  FAX: +81-3-3518-4602
https://www.jpcert.or.jp/english/
