JPCERT-AT-2009-0023
                                                             JPCERT/CC
                                                            2009-10-27

                  &lt;&lt;&lt; JPCERT/CC Alert 2009-10-27 &gt;&gt;&gt;

     Web sites attempting to infect users with malware increasing

        https://www.jpcert.or.jp/english/at/2009/at090023.txt

I. Overview

  JPCERT/CC has received a sudden increase this week in reports
regarding web sites serving injected, malicious Javascript code.  So
far, this specific incident appears to mainly affect Japanese Internet
users. This bulletin aims to inform users about countermeasures
against such malicious sites.

  If a web site injected with malicious code is visited, a separate
web site will attempt to infect the user with malware.  According to
multiple Japanese PC vendors, a large number of users infected with
malware have reported not being able to successfully start their
computers.  This phenomenon is currently thought to have been caused
by visiting such websites.

  The impact of an infected computer not being able to boot is
significant.  Accordingly, after checking whether or not the below
countermeasures have been applied, it is highly recommended that you
follow these guidelines as a priority if you have not taken these
precautions.

II. Countermeasures

  JPCERT/CC is currently confirming that this attack is utilizing
vulnerabilities in Adobe Flash Player, Adobe Acrobat and Adobe Reader
as reported.  Please update to the latest version of each of these
software products if installed.

  [Adobe Acrobat, Adobe Reader]

  From the Acrobat or Reader menu, selecting "Help" -&gt; "Check for
Updates" will allow you to upgrade to the latest version.  If
upgrading fails for some reason, please install the latest version
from the following URL:

    Adobe.com - New downloads
    http://www.adobe.com/support/downloads/new.jsp

  [Adobe Flash Player]
  Please check whether you're running the latest version of Flash
Player at the following URL:

    Adobe Flash Player:Version Information
    http://www.adobe.com/software/flash/about/

  If your installed version of Flash Player is not the latest version,
please install the latest version from the following URL:

    Adobe Flash Player installation
    http://get.adobe.com/flashplayer/

  Additionally, the malicious content present on injected sites is
being changed on a continual basis.  Consequently, attack methods and
the software targeted also appears to be changing regularly.  For this
reason, it is recommended that you update your computer's operating
system and install the latest patches for installed software on a
regular basis.

    Microsoft Update
    https://update.microsoft.com/


III. Reference

    Kaspersky Labs Japan
    Gumblar-like, updated threat emerges (Japanese)
    http://www.kaspersky.co.jp/news?id=207578788

    SecureBrain
    New, Gumblar-like attack technique confirmed, 1/3 of previously infected websites re-defaced (Japanese)
    http://www.securebrain.co.jp/about/news/2009/10/gred-gumbler.html

    Microsoft
    A mouse cursor on a black screen (Win32/Daonol) (Japanese)
    http://blogs.technet.com/jpsecurity/archive/2009/10/23/3288625.aspx

   Warning regarding computer virus Win32/Daonol (Dell)
    http://supportapj.dell.com/support/topics/topic.aspx/jp/shared/support/news/2009/20091022

    Apology for call center disruptions due to large number of Win32/Daonol infected customers (Fujitsu) (Japanese)
    http://azby.fmworld.net/support/info/apology/20091022.html

    Apology for call center disruptions due to large number of Torojan.Win32/Daonol.H infected customers (NEC) (Japanese)
    http://121ware.com/navigate/support/121cc/info/20091026/

    Trojan.Win32/Daonol.H (Toshiba)
    http://dynabook.com/assistpc/info/20091022.htm

    Apology for VAIO customer call center congestion (Sony)
    http://vcl.vaio.sony.co.jp/iforu/hotnews/2009/10/003/

If you have any further questions or information regarding this alert,
please contact JPCERT/CC.

======================================================================
JPCERT Coordination Center (JPCERT/CC)
MAIL: info@jpcert.or.jp
TEL: +81-3-3518-4600  FAX: +81-3-3518-4602
https://www.jpcert.or.jp/english/
