JPCERT-AT-2014-0024
                                                             JPCERT/CC
                                                            2014-05-15

                  &lt;&lt;&lt; JPCERT/CC Alert 2014-05-15 &gt;&gt;&gt;

       Alert regarding the usage of old versions of Movable Type

        https://www.jpcert.or.jp/english/at/2014/at140024.html


I. Overview

  JPCERT/CC has received multiple incident reports regarding
compromised websites related to the usage of old versions of Movable
Type.

  According to the information that we have obtained, attacks
leveraging known vulnerabilities in Movable Type to place arbitrary
files on the websites and embed iframes or obfuscated JavaScript to
redirect to an attack sites have been observed.

  We have not been able to identify that all compromises of websites
that use old versions of Movable Type leveraged vulnerabilities, but
if using a vulnerable version, there remains a possibility that
attackers may leverage a vulnerability to compromise the website. As
a proactive measure, we recommend updating not only Movable Type but
the OS and other software to the latest versions.

  Website administrators are recommended to refer to "II. Solution -
For Website Administrators" and check if their website has been
compromised and consider implementing any countermeasures as
necessary.

  In addition, JPCERT/CC has observed that the attack sites have
attack tools referred to as Exploit kits embedded in them. If the
software installed on the user PC contains any vulnerabilities, when
the website is viewed, the user is redirected to the attack site and
the PC may become infected with malware.

  The redirected attack sites that have been observed by JPCERT/CC,
leverage known vulnerabilities in the following software. Updating the
following software along with other software and the OS to the latest
versions will reduce the probability of being infected by malware.
Please refer to the "II. Solution - For Users" and update the software
to the latest versions.

  - Oracle Java
  - Adobe Reader
  - Adobe Flash Player
  - Internet Explorer


II. Solution

[For Website Administrators] 
  In order to prevent your website from being compromised and user
PC's from being infected by malware, please check the following and
consider implementing any countermeasures as necessary.

  (Points to be Check)
  - Check if Movable Type being used is the latest version
  - Check if the OS and software used for the website are the latest
    versions
  - Check the web server FTP / SSH logs to see if there is anything
    unusual with the source IP address, access times, etc.
  - Check if web contents is being modified to embed malicious program
    in it
  - Check if the PC used to update the website is infected with
    malware.  If administration of the website is outsourced, verify
    with the outsourcing company that the PC's used are not infected
    with malware

  (Countermeasures)
  - Update Movable Type to the latest version
    Security Updates for 6.0.3, 5.2.10, 5.17 now available (Japanese)
    http://www.movabletype.jp/blog/6035210517.html
    
  - If Movable Type cannot be updated for some reason, please refer to
    the following for any workarounds that may be implemented.
    Advices on how to use Movable Type safely (Japanese)
    http://www.movabletype.jp/blog/secure_movable_type.html

  - Update the OS and software being used for the website to the
    latest versions as necessary
  - Only allow website content updates from designated locations and
    PC's (IP address, etc)
  - Change the FTP / SSH account passwords used for website content
    updates to a password that cannot be easily compromised by means
    of brute-force attacks and dictionary attacks.  (Passwords are
    recommended to be at least 8 alphanumeric characters in length and
    also be a string that cannot be easily guessed)

[For Users]
  The redirected attacks site leverage known vulnerabilities in order
to install malware. Refer the following URL's to update software being
used to the latest versions.

  [Microsoft]
    Microsoft Update
    https://www.update.microsoft.com/

    Windows Update
    http://windowsupdate.microsoft.com/

  [Adobe]
    Adobe Flash Player Download Center
    https://get.adobe.com/flashplayer/

    Adobe - Product Updates (Adobe Acrobat¡¢Adobe Reader)
    https://www.adobe.com/downloads/updates/

  [Oracle Java]
    Free Java Download (JRE 7, English)
    https://java.com/en/download/


III. References

    Advices on how to use Movable Type safely (Japanese)
    http://www.movabletype.jp/blog/secure_movable_type.html


  If you have any information regarding this alert, please contact
JPCERT/CC.

======================================================================
JPCERT Coordination Center (JPCERT/CC)
MAIL: info@jpcert.or.jp
TEL: +81-3-3518-4600  FAX: +81-3-3518-4602
https://www.jpcert.or.jp/english/
