JPCERT-AT-2010-0005
                                                             JPCERT/CC
                                                            2010-02-03


                  &lt;&lt;&lt; JPCERT/CC Alert 2010-02-03  &gt;&gt;&gt;

             Increase in malware stealing FTP credentials

            https://www.jpcert.or.jp/at/2010/at100005.txt


I.  Overview

  From late year, widespread attacks have used stolen FTP accounts to
deface web sites.  Affected web sites include embedded obfuscated
Javascript, which attempts to infect visitors to that site with
malware such as Gumblar.  The number of systems infected in this way
continues to climb.

  As a result of analyzing the malware used in this attack, JPCERT has
established the existence of feature designed to steal saved account
credentials.  This bulletin aims to increase awareness of how to
counteract such malware.


II. Details

  If a user visits a defaced web site, the user may be infected with
malware which harvests any saved account credentials and transmits
them to external servers.  Such account credential theft targets
multiple FTP clients.  JPCERT/CC has confirmed that the following FTP
clients are affected:

   - ALFTP 5.2 beta1
   - BulletPloof FTP Client 2009.72.0.64
   - EmFTP 2.02.2
   - FFFTP 1.96d
   - FileZilla 3.3.1
   - FlashFXP 3.6
   - Frigate 3.36
   - FTP Commander 8
   - FTP Navigator 7.77
   - FTP Now 2.6.93
   - FTP Rush 1.1b
   - SmartFTP 4.0.1072.0
   - Total Commander 7.50a
   - UltraFXP 1.07
   - WinSCP 4.2.5

  Furthermore, credentials saved in the following web browsers'
password manager are also harvested and transmitted to an external
site:

   - Microsoft Internet Explorer 6
     (Internet Explorer 7 and 8 are not believed to be affected)
   - Opera 10.10
     (The use of a master password for the password manager mitigates 
     credential theft.).

  Please note that the software targeted by such malware may change in
the future.


III. Countermeasures

  The malware used in this particular attack abuses multiple software
vulnerabilities to infect others.  Software products exploited by the
current attack include:

   - Adobe Acrobat, Adobe Reader
   - Adobe Flash Player
   - Java(JRE)
   - Microsoft Windows

  As far as JPCERT/CC has been able to confirm, software fixes are
already available for the vulnerabilities targeted by this attack.
Therefore, each affected product's software update procedure should be
applied to reduce the risk of future infections.

  In addition, attacks such as this may increase in the future,
targeting different software vulnerabilities.  Users should ensure
that all software they use is updated to its latest version.

  Web site administrators should refer to the following alert for
information about how to recover from web site infections related to
this attack:

  Web site compromises and Gumblar attacks continue to increase
  https://www.jpcert.or.jp/english/at/2010/at100001.txt


IV. References

   Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry
   New Year's holiday Internet activity bulletin
   http://www.meti.go.jp/policy/netsecurity/downloadfiles/nenmatsunenshi.pdf

   JPCERT/CC
   Large amount of malware infections occurring via web sites
   https://www.jpcert.or.jp/at/2009/at090023.txt

   JPCERT/CC
   Winter vacation preparation tips Vol.2
   Important tips for New Year's holiday Internet usage
   https://www.jpcert.or.jp/pr/2009/pr090008.txt

   JPCERT/CC
   Web site compromises and Gumblar attacks continue to increase
   https://www.jpcert.or.jp/pr/2010/pr100001.txt

   Internet Promotion Agency
   Bulletin for web site administrators regarding web site defacements
   Bulletin for users: Users being infected while visiting defaced web sites
   http://www.ipa.go.jp/security/topics/20091224.html

   National Information Security Center (NISC)
   Information Security Month
   http://www.nisc.go.jp/ism/index.html

   Microsoft
   Microsoft Update
   http://windowsupdate.microsoft.com/


  If you have any further questions or information regarding this
alert, please contact JPCERT/CC.

======================================================================
JPCERT Coordination Center (JPCERT/CC)
MAIL: info@jpcert.or.jp
TEL: +81-3-3518-4600  FAX: +81-3-3518-4602
https://www.jpcert.or.jp/english/
