JPCERT-AT-2011-0007
                                                             JPCERT/CC
                                                            2011-03-22

                  &lt;&lt;&lt; JPCERT/CC Alert 22.03.11 &gt;&gt;&gt;

    Vulnerability in Adobe Flash Player , Adobe Reader and Acrobat

            https://www.jpcert.or.jp/at/2011/at110007.txt


I. Overview

  Adobe Flash Player contains a vulnerability. As a result, a remote 
attacker could execute arbitrary code by convincing a user to open 
specially crafted contents. Furthermore, this vulnerablity also 
affects some versions of Adobe Reader and Acrobat that contain the 
Authplay.dll.
  JPCERT/CC has confirmed attacks exploiting this vulnerability. Users
are recommended to update to the corrected software provided by Adobe 
Systems, or apply mitigation measures.

    APSB11-05
    Security update available for Adobe Flash Player
    http://www.adobe.com/support/security/bulletins/apsb11-05.html

    APSB11-06
    Security updates available for Adobe Reader and Acrobat
    http://www.adobe.com/support/security/bulletins/apsb11-06.html


II. Products Affected

  Affected products and versions are as follows:

  - Adobe Flash Player 10.2.152.33 and earlier
  - Adobe AIR 2.5.1 and earlier

  The following products that contain Authplay.dll are also affected 
by this vulnerability.
  - Adobe Reader 9.x, Adobe Reader X(10.0.x)
  - Adobe Acrobat 9.x, Adobe Acrobat X(10.0.x)

  However, according to Adobe Systems, Adobe Reader X Protected Mode 
mitigates the effect of this vulnerability. The corrected software of 
Adobe Reader X is planned to be released with the next quarterly 
security update on June 14, 2011 (USA time). 
  Futhermore, Adobe Reader and Acrobat 8.x are not affected by this 
vulnerability.

  For more information, refer to Adobe Systems' website.


III. Solution

- Adobe Flash Player

  Update Adobe Flash Player to the following latest version. For more 
information, refer to Adobe Systems' website.

  - Adobe Flash Player 10.2.153.1

    Adobe Flash Player Download Center
    http://get.adobe.com/jp/flashplayer/
    http://get.adobe.com/flashplayer/

  The Adobe Flash Player version number installed on your PC can be 
verified through the following page:

    Adobe Flash Player: Version Information
    http://www.adobe.com/jp/software/flash/about/
    http://www.adobe.com/products/flash/about/

* Even if using browsers other than Internet Explorer, Flash Player 
  may be installed on Internet Explorer. Therefore, the Flash Player 
  for Internet Explorer should also be updated.

- Adobe AIR

  Update Adobe AIR to the following latest version. For more 
information, refer to Adobe Systems' website.

  - Adobe AIR 2.6

    Adobe AIR Download Center
    http://get.adobe.com/jp/air/
    http://get.adobe.com/air/

- Adobe Reader and Acrobat

  Update Adobe Reader and Acrobat to the following latest version.
Corrected software of some of the products are not released, but 
information for mitigating the effect is published. For more 
information, refer to Adobe Systems' website.

  - Adobe Reader 9.4.3 / Adobe Acrobat 9.4.3, Adobe Acrobat 10.0.2:

  Apply the corrected software provided by Adobe Systems. Adobe Reader
and Acrobat will be updated by starting the products, selecting the 
menu Help (H), and then clicking Check for Updates (U).

  If update is not possible, download the latest Adobe Reader and 
Acrobat from the following URL:

    Adobe.com - New downloads
    http://www.adobe.com/support/downloads/new.jsp

  For more information, refer to Adobe Systems' website.

  - Adobe Reader 10.0.x:
    The effect of this vulnerablity is mitigated by the Protected Mode.
Therefore, confirm that the Protected Mode is enabled.


IV. References

    Adobe Security Bulletins APSB11-05
    Security update available for Adobe Flash Player
    http://www.adobe.com/support/security/bulletins/apsb11-05.html

    Adobe Security Bulletins APSB11-06 
    Security updates available for Adobe Reader and Acrobat
    http://www.adobe.com/support/security/bulletins/apsb11-06.html

    Adobe Security Bulletins APSB11-03
    Security Advisory for Adobe Flash Player, Adobe Reader and Acrobat
    http://www.adobe.com/support/security/advisories/apsa11-01.html


  If you have any further questions or information regarding this 
alert, please contact JPCERT/CC.

======================================================================
JPCERT Coordination Center (JPCERT/CC)
MAIL: info@jpcert.or.jp
TEL: +81-3-3518-4600  FAX: +81-3-3518-4602
https://www.jpcert.or.jp/english/
