JPCERT-AT-2011-0011
                                                             JPCERT/CC
                                                            2011-04-28

                  &lt;&lt;&lt; JPCERT/CC Alert 28.04.11&gt;&gt;&gt;

             Unauthorized use of leaked IDs and passwords

            https://www.jpcert.or.jp/at/2011/at110011.txt


I. Overview

  On April 27, 2011, Sony Computer Entertainment Inc. released 
information regarding account information leakage that was due to 
unauthorized access of the PlayStation Network and Qriocity.

  According to Sony Computer Entertainment Inc., there is a 
possibility that this unauthorized access may have resulted in the 
leak of the names, addresses, email addresses, dates of birth, 
passwords and online IDs of registered PlayStation Network and 
Qriocity users. In addition, Sony Computer Entertainment Inc. says it 
cannot deny the possibility that credit card information registered 
with these services by users may also have been leaked.

  If account information (ID/Password) registered with these services 
have had been used with other services as well, the attacker may use 
the illegally acquired account information to log into services other 
than PlayStation Network and Qriocity to illegally access these 
services or steal personal and credit card information registered with
those services.

  Attacks such as the following may also be carried out.

  (1) Attacks using the illegally acquired personal information to 
      direct users to sites that lead to virus infections.
  (2) Attacks that involve attaching viruses to emails that look like
      they are messages inquiring about this incident.
  (3) Attacks that involve the attackers posing as a party related to 
      this incident and directing users to phishing sites that 
      encourage users to change their registered information.

  Users who use the same account information for multiple services are
urged to refer to the solution below and register different 
ID/Password information for each service. Furthermore, if emails 
regarding this incident are received, check that there are no 
suspicious aspects to the email including the sender and message body 
of the email.


II. Solution

  If the same account information is registered with multiple services,
change the account information using the service provider's web site.
(For information on how to change the registered information, refer 
to the FAQ or other similar pages of the service providers.)

  Refer to the following publication for information regarding 
creating a secure password.

    Information Security Manual for the Training of New Employees Rev2
    (P27 - 28  Learning how to create secure passwords)
    https://www.jpcert.or.jp/magazine/security/newcomer.html

  In addition, if any received emails that appear to be from parties 
related to this incident try to direct the recipient to phishing sites
that require to enter information such as credit card or personal 
information, or if a received email directs the recipient to open a 
suspicious attachment, do not try to access the listed URLs or and 
open the attachment.

  If an email that directs the recipient to suspicous sites is 
recieved or an email with suspicious attachments is recieved, do not 
open the attachments and please report these to the Council of 
Anti-Phishing Japan or JPCERT/CC.

    Council of Anti-Phishing Japan
    https://www.antiphishing.jp/registration.html

    JPCERT/CC Incident Reporting
    https://www.jpcert.or.jp/form/#report

  For other solutions, refer to information from Sony Computer 
Entertainment Inc.


III. References

    Sony Computer Entertainment Inc.
    An Apology and Request to the Users of PlayStation Network/Qriocity(TM)
    http://cdn.jp.playstation.com/msg/sp_20110427_psn.html


  If you have any further questions or information regarding this 
alert, please contact JPCERT/CC.

======================================================================
JPCERT Coordination Center (JPCERT/CC)
MAIL: info@jpcert.or.jp
TEL: +81-3-3518-4600  FAX: +81-3-3518-4602
https://www.jpcert.or.jp/english/
