JPCERT-AT-2012-0027
                                                             JPCERT/CC
                                                            2012-08-23


                   &lt;&lt;&lt; JPCERT/CC Alert 23-08-12 &gt;&gt;&gt;

               Disclosure of credentials with MS-CHAP v2

        https://www.jpcert.or.jp/english/at/2012/at120027.html


I. Overview

  Microsoft Challenge Handshake Authentication Protocol (MS-CHAP)
version 2, is widely used as an authentication method in
Point-to-Point Tunneling Protocol (PPTP)-based VPNs. With MS-CHAP v2,
a third party may steal credentials. MS-CHAP v2 may be used as an
authentication protocol for wired and wireless LAN in some cases.

  An attacker could steal user authentication traffic via a
man-in-the-middle attack or intercepting wireless communications and
then acquiring credentials by leveraging the vulnerabilities
associated with MS-CHAP v2. As a result, the attacker may decrypt
protected communication or illegally access a system using the
acquired credentials.

    Microsoft Security Advisory (2743314)
    Unencapsulated MS-CHAP v2 Authentication Could Allow Information Disclosure
    http://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/security/advisory/2743314

  Microsoft Japan states that detailed exploit code has been publicly
available for this vulnerability. Taking into account the possibility
of future attacks leveraging this vulnerability, it is recommended to
consider the solution shown in III , if accessing an internal system
through a PPTP-based VPN.


II. Affected Systems

  Any system with PPTP-based VPN connections using only MS-CHAP v2

  * Users are not affected if they encrypt the MS-CHAP v2 authentication
    traffic with other methods.

  According to Microsoft Japan, users are not affected if they use
MS-CHAP v2 as a protocol to authenticate wired or wireless LAN on a
Windows client. This is because Microsoft offers only one option:
using PEAP in combination with MS-CHAP v2. Those who use other
appliances are unlikely to be affected since PEAP, TLS, and others are
generally used together with MS-CHAP v2 in many
implementations. However, it is recommended to refer to the
information provided by the relevant vendor.


III. Solution

  When you build a new system or update an existing system, do not use
only MS-CHAP v2; use PEAP or another expanded protocol in combination
or consider a configuration that does not involve PPTP (such as
IKEv2/IPSec and L2TP/IPSec).

  Please use PEAP or other expanded protocol together with MS-CHAP v2
or VPNs other than PPTP-based ones, in current and future system
configuration.

  If you continue to use only MS-CHAP v2 until the migration is
completed, make sure that there is no unauthorized access by
periodically checking the authentication log of currently operated
network appliances or servers.


IV. References

    Microsoft Security Advisory (2743314)
    Unencapsulated MS-CHAP v2 Authentication Could Allow Information Disclosure
    http://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/security/advisory/2743314

    Japan Security Team
    Released the Security Advisory #2743314: Unencapsulated MS-CHAP v2 Authentication Could Allow Information Disclosure
    http://blogs.technet.com/b/jpsecurity/archive/2012/08/21/3515331.aspx


  If you have any information regarding this alert, please contact
JPCERT/CC.

======================================================================
JPCERT Coordination Center (JPCERT/CC)
MAIL: info@jpcert.or.jp
TEL: +81-3-3518-4600  FAX: +81-3-3518-4602
https://www.jpcert.or.jp/english/
