JPCERT-AT-2011-0026
                                                             JPCERT/CC
                                                            2011-09-22

                  &lt;&lt;&lt; JPCERT/CC Alert 22.09.11 &gt;&gt;&gt;

                Vulnerabilities in Adobe Flash Player

            https://www.jpcert.or.jp/at/2011/at110026.txt


I. Overview

  Adobe Flash Player contains multiple vulnerabilities. As a result, a 
remote attacker could execute arbitrary code or perform cross-site 
scripting attacks by convincing a user to open specially crafted 
contents.

  Adobe Systems has already observed targeted attacks exploiting the 
cross-site scripting vulnerabilities (CVE-2011-2444), and has 
indicated that e-mail containing links leading to attack vector sites 
are being sent. When users click on links contained in these e-mails, 
attackers can spoof users, taking action on websites or in webmail, 
hijacking sessions, harvesting cookies, etc.

  Users are recommended to update to the corrected software provided 
by Adobe Systems.

    Adobe Security Bulletins APSB11-26
    Security update available for Adobe Flash Player
    http://www.adobe.com/support/security/bulletins/apsb11-26.html

  This vulnerability also affects the Adobe Flash Player included in 
Adobe Reader/Acrobat, but has been corrected in the newest version of 
Adobe Reader/Acrobat, released on September 13, 2011. Users who have 
not yet updated Adobe Reader/Acrobat are recommended to do so.

    Adobe Security Bulletins APSB11-24 
    Security updates available for Adobe Reader and Acrobat
    http://www.adobe.com/support/security/bulletins/apsb11-24.html

    JPCERT/CC Alert 2011-09-14 
    Vulnerabilities in Adobe Reader and Acrobat 
    https://www.jpcert.or.jp/english/at/2011/at110025.html 


II. Products Affected 

  Affected products and versions are as follows:

  - Adobe Flash Player 10.3.183.7 and earlier

For more information, refer to the Adobe Systems website.


III. Solution

- Adobe Flash Player

  Update Adobe Flash Player to the following latest version. For more 
information, refer to the Adobe Systems website.

  - Adobe Flash Player 10.3.183.10

    Adobe Flash Player Download Center
    http://get.adobe.com/jp/flashplayer/
    http://get.adobe.com/flashplayer/

  The Adobe Flash Player version number installed on your PC can be 
verified through the following page:

    Adobe Flash Player:Version Information
    http://www.adobe.com/jp/software/flash/about/
    http://www.adobe.com/software/flash/about/

* Even if using browsers other than Internet Explorer, Adobe Flash 
Player may be installed on Internet Explorer. Therefore, the Adobe 
Flash Player for Internet Explorer should also be updated.


IV. References

    Adobe Security Bulletins APSB11-26
    Security update available for Adobe Flash Player
    http://www.adobe.com/support/security/bulletins/apsb11-26.html

    Adobe Security Bulletins APSB11-24
    Security updates available for Adobe Reader and Acrobat
    http://www.adobe.com/support/security/bulletins/apsb11-24.html

    JPCERT/CC Alert 2011-09-14
    Vulnerabilities in Adobe Reader and Acrobat
    https://www.jpcert.or.jp/at/2011/at110025.html
    https://www.jpcert.or.jp/english/at/2011/at110025.html


  If you have any further questions or information regarding this 
alert, please contact JPCERT/CC.

======================================================================
JPCERT Coordination Center (JPCERT/CC)
MAIL: info@jpcert.or.jp
TEL: +81-3-3518-4600  FAX: +81-3-3518-4602
https://www.jpcert.or.jp/english/
