JPCERT-AT-2011-0028
                                                             JPCERT/CC
                                                            2011-10-28

                  &lt;&lt;&lt; JPCERT/CC Alert 28.10.11 &gt;&gt;&gt;

                        Targeted Email Attacks

             https://www.jpcert.or.jp/at/2011/at110002.txt


I. Overview

  As has recently been reported in the media, there has been an 
increase in the spread of malware through targeted e-mails sent to 
specific organizations and corporate groups. Infection of a user's 
computer by malware attached to a targeted e-mail may result in the 
theft of corporate or organization confidential information by the 
attacker. There is also a risk of the malware infection spreading to 
other computers and servers connected to the company network from the 
infected PC.
  JPCERT/CC has confirmed cases of malware in the form of document 
files that exploit vulnerabilities, as well as in the form of 
executable files in recent targeted e-mail attachments. In these cases,
most of the document form malware that exploit vulnerabilities 
utilized known vulnerabilities, and infection would have been 
prevented had security updates been applied. 
  JPCERT/CC has also confirmed executable file form malware that uses 
misleading icons to trick users into opening the file, as well as 
using RLO (Right-to-Left Override) to disguise file name extensions.
  In order to prevent damage from these targeted e-mails, JPCERT/CC 
recommends implementing the steps described in "III. Solution".


II. Detection of Targeted E-Mail Attacks 

  Targeted e-mail attacks are generally performed stealthily, and 
their target scope is relatively small. This makes them difficult to 
detect. Attacks and malware infection may be detected by regularly 
confirming the following items.
  It is recommended that system administrators regularly check the 
following items in order to detect if their organization is the target
of a targeted e-mail attack, or if it has been infected by malware as 
a result of such an attack.

  - Check for unusual internal/external traffic in traffic logs
    Regularly check logs and gateway devices such as routers, 
    firewalls, and proxy servers, and confirm whether there has been 
    any unusual traffic.
    (JPCERT/CC has confirmed the existence of malware which 
    communicates using ports 80 and 443, so detection based on 
    transmission port alone may be difficult.)  For example, check if 
    there have been communications with countries that are not 
    normally accessed, or frequent communications from computers or 
    servers outside of business hours. 

  - Unplanned server reboots
    There have been cases in the past where malware infection has been
    detected due to unplanned server reboots. If any unplanned server 
    reboots occur, check the system just in case for unauthorized 
    intrusion.

  - Regular virus scanning
    Malware may be updated periodically in response to commands issued
    by attackers. When this happens, old malware may remain on hard 
    disks. Such old malware may not have been detectable by anti-virus
    software at the time of infection, but later virus pattern file 
    updates may have enabled the anti-virus software to detect the 
    malware. Therefore, old malware may be detectable by regularly 
    running full hard disk virus scans. However, even if old malware 
    is removed, undetectable new malware may still be running. It is 
    recommended, for example, that computers in which malware has been
    found are moved to an isolated network, and their behavior 
    observed in order to confirm if they are attempting any unintended
    communications. If this is not feasible, please consider 
    consulting with the anti-virus software vendor. 


III. Solution

  The following targeted e-mail countermeasures are recommended for 
use on client PCs. Attacks frequently exploit known vulnerabilities, 
so application security updates should be immediately applied, if they
have not been applied already.

  - Keep the operating system and applications up to date;
    - Microsoft Office products, etc.
    - Adobe Reader/Acrobat/Flash Player
    - Oracle Java SE
  - If suspicious e-mails, or e-mails with even slightly suspicious 
    aspects, are received, do not open any attachments, or consult 
    with a system administrator
  - Keep anti-virus software pattern files up to date

  Some recent software has protective modes or employs other 
approaches to allow files to be used safely. It is recommended to use 
the latest versions of applications whenever possible. 

  Even if the measures above are implemented, malware infection can 
occur if a user opens an executable malware file. Perform the steps in
"V. Introduction to IT Security Inoculation" - "IT Security 
Inoculation", and consider improving the computer literacy of users. 


IV. JPCERT/CC Incident Response

  The spread or new occurence of damage by malware can be prevented by
shutting down the servers malware uses to propagate itself, and 
prevent new damage.
  If incidents are reported to JPCERT/CC, it can take steps to shut 
down the sites being used in the attack, so please contact JPCERT/CC 
via one of the following.

    JPCERT Coordination Center
    Incident reporting: https://www.jpcert.or.jp/form/
      - Web form:  https://form.jpcert.or.jp/
      - E-mail:  info@jpcert.or.jp


V. Introduction to IT Security Inoculation

  JPCERT/CC carries out IT security inoculation training in order to 
improve the security consciousness of general employees and system 
administrators, and publishes its results.
  In IT security inoculation, harmless fake targeted e-mails are sent 
to subject employees (up to twice per employee) in order to further 
their understanding of targeted e-mails, and improve their security 
consciousness. IT security inoculations have been performed at 
multiple companies, with the likelihood of employees opening fake 
targeted e-mails dropping for the second e-mail, so the inoculation 
shows promise for increasing computer literacy. Please see the 
following research reports for information regarding the techniques 
and effectiveness of IT security inoculations. 

   Research Report on IT Security Inoculation - 2009
   http://www.jpcert.or.jp/research/#inoculation2009

   Research Report on IT Security Inoculation - 2008
   http://www.jpcert.or.jp/research/#inoculation2008

  If you wish to perform an IT security inoculation, manuals and tools
are available free of charge from JPCERT/CC. Please contact JPCERT/CC 
at the following address.

    JPCERT Coordination Center
    Contact
      - E-mail: office@jpcert.or.jp


VI. References

   The Growing Threat of Targeted Cyber Attacks
   http://www.ipa.go.jp/about/press/20111018.html

   Confirmation of E-mails Containing Virus Payloads, Claiming to Be Part of Study Regarding Infection by Viruses Targeting Companies in Japan and Using RLO Control Code to Hide Attachment Extensions
   http://blog.trendmicro.co.jp/archives/3555

   Keep Your Software Up to Date!!  - Security Intelligence Report 11 - Security Intelligence Report 11
   http://blogs.technet.com/b/jpsecurity/archive/2011/10/20/3460367.aspx

If you have any further questions or information regarding this 
alert, please contact JPCERT/CC.

======================================================================
JPCERT Coordination Center (JPCERT/CC)
MAIL: info@jpcert.or.jp
TEL: +81-3-3518-4600  FAX: +81-3-3518-4602
https://www.jpcert.or.jp/english/
